---
layout: post
title:  "Stalking"
date:   2016-03-21 6:57pm
categories: jekyll update
---

It's a strange day in college when you are asked to discover
any information that you can about a few of your classmates
purely through search engines. As an advocate of internet
privacy, it actually made me pretty uncomfortable to be
digging through the byproduct data of online behavioral
surviellance.

I had to hunt for data on two classmates in particular, and
I had the bad luck to be given two very digitial-footprint-conscious
individuals to "stalk." I was able to find property records,
hometowns, and physical addresses based soley upon name and
facebook town of origin. Several sites offered to sell me
more complete information (phone numbers, income estimates, etc ...),
but it wasn't worth buying a profile of likely-incorrect information
just to overachieve on my homework.

Sadly, the two classmates whom I attempted to stalk were absent
during the class period in which we presented our results, so I
had no opporunity to check whether the information that I was
able to find was correct, nor do I know what they were able to
discover about me (if they did the assignment, which I've never
asked about).

Overall, the experience taught me that it's fairly easy to find
out where someone lives if you're dedicated enough to looking.
Beyond that, the degree to which you can find someone's information
varies widely based on how conscious they are of dissementating it.
I'm probably just going to continue my policy of minimal social media,
which hopefully protects my data from getting out there in the first place.
