---
layout: post
title:  "Snowden and Citizenfour"
date:   2016-03-30 6:57pm
categories: jekyll update
---

Of every film that I've been forced to sit through in a college
class, I think that CITIZENFOUR may have had the most profound
effect upon my future. To be honest, I knew practically nothing
about Edward Snowden or his revelations before seeing the film.
I'd heard it discussed, but it seemed political (is he a
traitor/were his actions treason?) to me, and I avoid political
conversation as a rule.

As I watched, I was struck by the profound courage of an
ordinary citizen who discovered horrifying truths. I have no
idea how I would react under such circumstances, but the fact
that he chose to come forward and to release that information
speaks to me of a kind of honor that I think is all too rare
in our culture.

I was also struck by Snowden's caution. He went to incredible
lengths to arrange his meetings with journalists without
compromising himself or his family. While watching the film,
I realized that I don't actually have a sophisticated enough
understanding of modern cryptography to do what he did. Even
if I had something important that I wanted to tell someone in
secret, I couldn't do it. To this day, that really gets under
my skin. If I, a relatively technical member of modern society,
am unable to communicate in a way that is truly secure, how
much harder must it be for those who do not want to be
software developers?

This has inspired my current personal research topic: modern,
cryptographically-secure communication. I want to learn exactly
how to do what Snowden did. I doubt that I'll ever be in a
position in which I need the knowledge, but I want to know that
I have it.

To that end, I've been working to understand RSA and other
methods of asymmetric encryption. If you're interested in such
things, a friend sent me a few excellent explanatory videos that
are worth your time:
 - [Key Exchange](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEBfamv-_do)
 - [RSA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXB-V_Keiu8)
